# Reconciling Multiple Connectivity Scores for Drug Repurposing
Kewalin Samart<sup>1,2,\*</sup>, Phoebe Tuyishime<sup>1,3,4,\*</sup>, Arjun Krishnan<sup>4,5,#</sup>, Janani Ravi<sup>1,#</sup> <br>
<sup>1</sup>Pathobiology and Diagnostic Investigation, Michigan State University; <sup>2</sup>Mathematics, Michigan State University; <sup>3</sup>Food Science and Nutrition, Michigan State University; <sup>4</sup>Computational Mathematics, Science and Engineering; <sup>5</sup>Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Michigan State University. <br>
<sup>*</sup>These authors contributed equally to this work. <br>
<sup>#</sup>Corresponding authors: arjun@msu.edu; janani@msu.edu

## Abstract
The basis of several recent methods for drug repurposing is the key principle that an efficacious drug will reverse the disease molecular ‘signature’ with minimal side-effects. This principle was defined and popularized by the influential ‘connectivity map’ study in 2006 regarding reversal relationships between disease- and drug-induced gene expression profiles, quantified by a disease-drug ‘connectivity score.’ Over the past 14 years, several studies have proposed variations in calculating connectivity scores towards improving accuracy and robustness in light of massive growth in reference drug profiles. However, these variations have been formulated inconsistently using varied notations and terminologies even though they are based on a common set of conceptual and statistical ideas. Therefore, we present a systematic reconciliation of multiple disease-drug connectivity scores by defining them using consistent notation and terminology. In addition to providing clarity and deeper insights, this coherent definition of connectivity scores and their relationships provides a unified scheme that newer methods can adopt, enabling the computational drug-development community to compare and benchmark different approaches easily. To facilitate the continuous and transparent integration of newer methods, this review will be available as a live document at https://jravilab.github.io/connectivity_score_review coupled with a GitHub repository https://github.com/jravilab/connectivity_score_review that any researcher can build on and push changes to.
